README.md, before:

# Summarizarr

[![CI](https://github.com/enddzone/summarizarr/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/enddzone/summarizarr/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Release](https://github.com/enddzone/summarizarr/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/enddzone/summarizarr/actions/workflows/release.yml)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Container](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-ghcr.io-blue)](https://github.com/enddzone/summarizarr/pkgs/container/summarizarr)

AI-powered Signal message summarizer in a single ~57MB container. Connects to Signal groups, stores messages in SQLite, and generates periodic AI summaries using local (Ollama sidecar) or cloud AI providers (OpenAI, Groq, Gemini, Claude).

## Features

- **🐳 Single Container**: All-in-one deployment with embedded web UI
- **🤖 Multi-Provider AI**: Local Ollama sidecar, OpenAI, Groq, Gemini, Claude support
- **🔒 Privacy-First**: Automatic data anonymization before AI processing
- **📱 Signal Integration**: WebSocket connection to signal-cli-rest-api
- **🌐 Modern UI**: Responsive Next.js interface with filtering and export
- **⚡ Production Ready**: Health checks, multi-arch builds, security scanning

## Architecture

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Signal Integration"
        SC[Signal CLI REST API<br/>Port 8080]
    end
    
    subgraph "Summarizarr Container"
        subgraph "Backend (Go)"
            WS[WebSocket Client]
            API[HTTP Server<br/>Port 8081]
            DB[(SQLite Database)]
            SCHED[AI Scheduler]
        end
        
        subgraph "Frontend"
            UI[Embedded Next.js UI]
        end
    end
    
    subgraph "AI Providers"
        LOCAL[🏠 Ollama<br/>Sidecar AI]
        OPENAI[🌐 OpenAI<br/>GPT-4]
        GROQ[⚡ Groq<br/>Fast Inference]
        GEMINI[🧠 Gemini<br/>via Proxy]
        CLAUDE[🤖 Claude<br/>via Proxy]
    end
    
    SC -.->|WebSocket| WS
    WS --> DB
    SCHED --> DB
    API --> DB
    API --> UI
    SCHED --> LOCAL
    SCHED --> OPENAI
    SCHED --> GROQ
    SCHED --> GEMINI
    SCHED --> CLAUDE
    
    style LOCAL fill:#e1f5fe
    style OPENAI fill:#fff3e0
    style GROQ fill:#f3e5f5
    style GEMINI fill:#e8f5e8
    style CLAUDE fill:#fce4ec
```

## Quick Start

### Docker Compose (Recommended)

```bash
# 1. Download configuration
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/enddzone/summarizarr/main/compose.yaml
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/enddzone/summarizarr/main/.env.example
cp .env.example .env

# 2. Configure Signal phone number
# Edit the .env file and set your Signal phone number:
# SIGNAL_PHONE_NUMBER=+1234567890

# 3. Configure AI
# Edit the .env file and update your OpenAI api key:
# OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-my-api-key

# 4. Start services
docker compose up -d

# 5. Access web UI: http://localhost:8081
```

### Single Container

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name summarizarr \
  -p 8081:8081 \
  -e SIGNAL_PHONE_NUMBER="+1234567890" \
  -e AI_PROVIDER=openai \
  -e OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-openai-api-key \
  -v summarizarr-data:/data \
  ghcr.io/enddzone/summarizarr:latest
```

## AI Provider Setup

### Local AI (Ollama Sidecar)
```bash
# 1. Start Ollama + pull model
docker run -d -p 11434:11434 --name ollama ollama/ollama
docker exec ollama ollama pull llama3.2:1b

# 2. Configure Summarizarr
AI_PROVIDER=local
OLLAMA_HOST=http://localhost:11434

# 3. With Docker Compose (recommended)
COMPOSE_PROFILES=local-ai docker compose up -d
```

### Cloud Providers
```bash
# OpenAI
AI_PROVIDER=openai
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-key-here

# Groq (fastest inference)
AI_PROVIDER=groq
GROQ_API_KEY=gsk-your-key-here

# Gemini (requires proxy)
AI_PROVIDER=gemini
GEMINI_API_KEY=your-key-here
GEMINI_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8000/hf/v1

# Claude (requires proxy)  
AI_PROVIDER=claude
CLAUDE_API_KEY=sk-ant-your-key-here
CLAUDE_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8000/openai/v1
```

## Configuration

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `SIGNAL_PHONE_NUMBER` | - | **Required** Phone number for Signal |
| `AI_PROVIDER` | `openai` | AI provider: `local`, `openai`, `groq`, `gemini`, `claude` |
| `SUMMARIZATION_INTERVAL` | `12h` | Summary frequency (30m, 1h, 6h, 1d) |
| `DATABASE_PATH` | `/app/data/summarizarr.db` | SQLite database location |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | `INFO` | Logging verbosity |

See [full configuration reference](https://github.com/enddzone/summarizarr/blob/main/.env.example) for all provider-specific options.

## Development

```bash
# Quick development setup
make dev-setup
make all          # Start Signal + Go backend + Next.js frontend

# Service URLs
# Frontend (dev): http://localhost:3000 - Hot reload
# Backend API:    http://localhost:8081 - Embedded frontend  
# Signal CLI:     http://localhost:8080 - WebSocket service

# Individual services
make signal       # Signal container only
make backend      # Go backend
make frontend     # Next.js with hot reload

# Testing
make test-backend
make test-frontend

### SQLCipher (Local Dev & Tests)

Backend encryption features require SQLCipher when running locally:

- macOS: `brew install sqlcipher`
- Ubuntu/Debian: `sudo apt-get install sqlcipher libsqlcipher-dev pkg-config libssl-dev`

Tests: `make test` will automatically use SQLCipher if available (CGO + `-tags sqlite_crypt libsqlite3`). If SQLCipher isn't installed, backend tests run without encryption and encryption-specific tests may be skipped.

Build tags: we pass both `sqlite_crypt` and `libsqlite3`.
- `sqlite_crypt` enables SQLCipher-specific paths in our code and dependencies.
- `libsqlite3` ensures the mattn/go-sqlite3 driver links against system libsqlite3/sqlcipher on some platforms (notably Alpine/musl) for predictable linkage. This dual-tag approach was tested on macOS, Ubuntu CI, and Alpine-based Docker builds.

# Stop all
make stop
```

## API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| `GET` | `/` | Web interface |
| `GET` | `/health` | Health check |
| `GET` | `/api/version` | Version info |
| `GET` | `/api/summaries` | List summaries (with filters) |
| `GET` | `/api/groups` | List Signal groups |
| `GET` | `/api/export` | Export data (JSON/CSV) |
| `DELETE` | `/api/summaries/{id}` | Delete summary |

## Privacy & Security

- **Automatic anonymization** of names and phone numbers before AI processing
- **Local data storage** in SQLite database
- **Database encryption** with SQLCipher (AES-256)
- **Non-root container** execution
- **Vulnerability scanning** with Trivy
- **No external data** sent without anonymization

### Database Encryption

SQLCipher encryption is mandatory and automatically managed:

- Development: On first run, a 32-byte key is generated and stored at `./data/encryption.key` with `0600` permissions. No env vars required.
- Production: Provide the 32-byte key via a Docker secret mounted at `/run/secrets/encryption_key`.

Keys are 32-byte (64 hex characters) for AES-256. Never commit keys to version control or bake them into images.

Note: Databases must be encrypted from the first run. There is no supported migration from unencrypted databases.

## Production Deployment

### Container Registry
```bash
# Latest version
docker pull ghcr.io/enddzone/summarizarr:latest

# Specific version
docker pull ghcr.io/enddzone/summarizarr:v1.0.0
```

### Health Monitoring
```bash
# Health check
curl http://localhost:8081/health

# Version info
curl http://localhost:8081/api/version

# Container logs
docker logs summarizarr
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/name`
3. Commit changes: `git commit -m 'Add feature'`
4. Push branch: `git push origin feature/name`
5. Open Pull Request

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Signal CLI REST API](https://github.com/bbernhard/signal-cli-rest-api) - Signal integration
- [Ollama](https://ollama.ai/) - Local AI capabilities
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - Modern web framework
- [Shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/) - UI components

Commit message:

Finally fix db encryption between restarts

README.md, after:

# Summarizarr

[![CI](https://github.com/enddzone/summarizarr/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/enddzone/summarizarr/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Release](https://github.com/enddzone/summarizarr/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/enddzone/summarizarr/actions/workflows/release.yml)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Container](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-ghcr.io-blue)](https://github.com/enddzone/summarizarr/pkgs/container/summarizarr)

AI-powered Signal message summarizer in a single ~57MB container. Connects to Signal groups, stores messages in SQLite, and generates periodic AI summaries using local (Ollama sidecar) or cloud AI providers (OpenAI, Groq, Gemini, Claude).

## Features

- **🐳 Single Container**: All-in-one deployment with embedded web UI
- **🤖 Multi-Provider AI**: Local Ollama sidecar, OpenAI, Groq, Gemini, Claude support
- **🔒 Privacy-First**: Automatic data anonymization before AI processing
- **📱 Signal Integration**: WebSocket connection to signal-cli-rest-api
- **🌐 Modern UI**: Responsive Next.js interface with filtering and export
- **⚡ Production Ready**: Health checks, multi-arch builds, security scanning

## Architecture

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Signal Integration"
        SC[Signal CLI REST API<br/>Port 8080]
    end
    
    subgraph "Summarizarr Container"
        subgraph "Backend (Go)"
            WS[WebSocket Client]
            API[HTTP Server<br/>Port 8081]
            DB[(SQLite Database)]
            SCHED[AI Scheduler]
        end
        
        subgraph "Frontend"
            UI[Embedded Next.js UI]
        end
    end
    
    subgraph "AI Providers"
        LOCAL[🏠 Ollama<br/>Sidecar AI]
        OPENAI[🌐 OpenAI<br/>GPT-4]
        GROQ[⚡ Groq<br/>Fast Inference]
        GEMINI[🧠 Gemini<br/>via Proxy]
        CLAUDE[🤖 Claude<br/>via Proxy]
    end
    
    SC -.->|WebSocket| WS
    WS --> DB
    SCHED --> DB
    API --> DB
    API --> UI
    SCHED --> LOCAL
    SCHED --> OPENAI
    SCHED --> GROQ
    SCHED --> GEMINI
    SCHED --> CLAUDE
    
    style LOCAL fill:#e1f5fe
    style OPENAI fill:#fff3e0
    style GROQ fill:#f3e5f5
    style GEMINI fill:#e8f5e8
    style CLAUDE fill:#fce4ec
```

## Quick Start

### Docker Compose (Recommended)

```bash
# 1. Download configuration
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/enddzone/summarizarr/main/compose.yaml
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/enddzone/summarizarr/main/.env.example
cp .env.example .env

# 2. Configure Signal phone number
# Edit the .env file and set your Signal phone number:
# SIGNAL_PHONE_NUMBER=+1234567890

# 3. Configure AI
# Edit the .env file and update your OpenAI api key:
# OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-my-api-key

# 4. Start services
docker compose up -d

# 5. Access web UI: http://localhost:8081
```

### Single Container

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name summarizarr \
  -p 8081:8081 \
  -e SIGNAL_PHONE_NUMBER="+1234567890" \
  -e AI_PROVIDER=openai \
  -e OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-openai-api-key \
  -v summarizarr-data:/data \
  ghcr.io/enddzone/summarizarr:latest
```

## AI Provider Setup

### Local AI (Ollama Sidecar)
```bash
# 1. Start Ollama + pull model
docker run -d -p 11434:11434 --name ollama ollama/ollama
docker exec ollama ollama pull llama3.2:1b

# 2. Configure Summarizarr
AI_PROVIDER=local
OLLAMA_HOST=http://localhost:11434

# 3. With Docker Compose (recommended)
COMPOSE_PROFILES=local-ai docker compose up -d
```

### Cloud Providers
```bash
# OpenAI
AI_PROVIDER=openai
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-key-here

# Groq (fastest inference)
AI_PROVIDER=groq
GROQ_API_KEY=gsk-your-key-here

# Gemini (requires proxy)
AI_PROVIDER=gemini
GEMINI_API_KEY=your-key-here
GEMINI_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8000/hf/v1

# Claude (requires proxy)  
AI_PROVIDER=claude
CLAUDE_API_KEY=sk-ant-your-key-here
CLAUDE_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8000/openai/v1
```

## Configuration

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `SIGNAL_PHONE_NUMBER` | - | **Required** Phone number for Signal |
| `AI_PROVIDER` | `openai` | AI provider: `local`, `openai`, `groq`, `gemini`, `claude` |
| `SUMMARIZATION_INTERVAL` | `12h` | Summary frequency (30m, 1h, 6h, 1d) |
| `DATABASE_PATH` | `/app/data/summarizarr.db` | SQLite database location |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | `INFO` | Logging verbosity |

See [full configuration reference](https://github.com/enddzone/summarizarr/blob/main/.env.example) for all provider-specific options.

## Development

```bash
# Quick development setup
make dev-setup
make all          # Start Signal + Go backend + Next.js frontend

# Service URLs
# Frontend (dev): http://localhost:3000 - Hot reload
# Backend API:    http://localhost:8081 - Embedded frontend  
# Signal CLI:     http://localhost:8080 - WebSocket service

# Individual services
make signal       # Signal container only
make backend      # Go backend
make frontend     # Next.js with hot reload

# Testing
make test-backend
make test-frontend

### SQLCipher (Local Dev & Tests)

Backend encryption features require SQLCipher when running locally:

- macOS: `brew install sqlcipher`
- Ubuntu/Debian: `sudo apt-get install sqlcipher libsqlcipher-dev pkg-config libssl-dev`

Tests: `make test` will automatically use SQLCipher if available (CGO + `-tags sqlite_crypt libsqlite3`). If SQLCipher isn't installed, backend tests run without encryption and encryption-specific tests may be skipped.

Build tags: we pass both `sqlite_crypt` and `libsqlite3`.
- `sqlite_crypt` enables SQLCipher-specific paths in our code and dependencies.
- `libsqlite3` ensures the mattn/go-sqlite3 driver links against system libsqlite3/sqlcipher on some platforms (notably Alpine/musl) for predictable linkage. This dual-tag approach was tested on macOS, Ubuntu CI, and Alpine-based Docker builds.

# Stop all
make stop
```

## API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| `GET` | `/` | Web interface |
| `GET` | `/health` | Health check |
| `GET` | `/api/version` | Version info |
| `GET` | `/api/summaries` | List summaries (with filters) |
| `GET` | `/api/groups` | List Signal groups |
| `GET` | `/api/export` | Export data (JSON/CSV) |
| `DELETE` | `/api/summaries/{id}` | Delete summary |

## Privacy & Security

- **Automatic anonymization** of names and phone numbers before AI processing
- **Local data storage** in SQLite database
- **Database encryption** with SQLCipher (AES-256)
- **Non-root container** execution
- **Vulnerability scanning** with Trivy
- **No external data** sent without anonymization

### Database Encryption

SQLCipher encryption is mandatory and automatically managed:

- Development: On first run, a 32-byte key is generated and stored at `./data/encryption.key` with `0600` permissions. No env vars required.
- Production: Provide the 32-byte key via a Docker secret mounted at `/run/secrets/encryption_key`.

Keys are 32-byte (64 hex characters) for AES-256. Never commit keys to version control or bake them into images.

Note: Databases must be encrypted from the first run. There is no supported migration from unencrypted databases.

Tip: Ensure `./data` exists and is writable before starting with `make docker` or Compose. Both the database file and `encryption.key` persist in this directory.

## Production Deployment

### Container Registry
```bash
# Latest version
docker pull ghcr.io/enddzone/summarizarr:latest

# Specific version
docker pull ghcr.io/enddzone/summarizarr:v1.0.0
```

### Health Monitoring
```bash
# Health check
curl http://localhost:8081/health

# Version info
curl http://localhost:8081/api/version

# Container logs
docker logs summarizarr
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/name`
3. Commit changes: `git commit -m 'Add feature'`
4. Push branch: `git push origin feature/name`
5. Open Pull Request

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Signal CLI REST API](https://github.com/bbernhard/signal-cli-rest-api) - Signal integration
- [Ollama](https://ollama.ai/) - Local AI capabilities
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - Modern web framework
- [Shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/) - UI components
